mind your decisions a presh tall Walker
here mark Rober is one of the most
popular youtubers he tweeted out for the
last five months every single video of
mine has been number one on YouTube
trending and they're averaging 20
million views per video I have some
thoughts on this he was trying to put
some perspective on his fortune in his
explanation he had the following
sentence if you give 1024 people a coin
and give them 10 tries to get as many
tails as possible it's a statistical
certainty that one of them will flip 10
tails in a row in the ensuing discussion
people pointed out the math on this
wasn't entirely correct and mark
admitted his mistake and they got to the
correct number but for people who have
never seen this kind of calculation I
thought it would make for a good video
so each of 1,024 people flips a coin 10
times what is the chance that at least
one person flips all 10 tails next
suppose you repeat the experiment with n
people how large mus n be so there's a
99.9% chance that at least one person
flips all 10 tails pause the video if
you'd like to give these problems a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve these problems
[Music]
let's calculate the probability suppose
you flip a coin ten times each toss has
a 1/2 chance to be tails the probability
that you get 10 tails in a row will be
equal to 1/2 multiplied by 1/2
multiplied by 1/2 a total of 10 times
this simplifies to be 1/2 to the power
of 10 well then consider the complement
event which is 1 minus this event this
will give you the probability that you
don't get 10 tails in a row now let's
simplify this fraction and then we're
going to consider this event for n
people each of n people has the same
probability so the probability that n
people don't get 10 tails will be this
probability raised to the power of n we
then consider the complement event and
that will be equal to the probability
that someone in n gets 10 tails well now
use this formula to solve both parts
first we'll set N equal to 1,024 which
is equal to 2 to the power of 10 we
substitute this in and we get the
following formula we can actually
estimate this without a calculator this
term has the form 1 minus 1 over n all
raised to the power of n if we take the
limit as n goes to infinity we get 1
over e which is approximately 36.8%
we want 1 minus that so bub will get
approximately 63.2% it's nearly two out
of three and that ain't bad but it's not
quite a statistical certainty so how
large was n be to get to 99.9% well set
this equation equal to 99.9% well then
rearrange this equation and simplify we
then take natural logs on both sides and
bring the exponent down we then solve
for N and then simplify to get n is
equal to 70 70 and some fractional part
since N is a whole number we round up we
need at least seven thousand seventy one
people flipping coins to have a 99.9%
chance that someone will get 10 tails in
a row I
enjoy problems like this and I'm glad
marks tweet provided an opportunity to
cover this calculation thanks for being
the best subscribers on YouTube thanks
for watching and thanks for your support
[Music]